Microsoft AI systems are assessed using Impact Assessments. Documentation regarding these impacts may be finalized up to six months after the system's commercial launch.
A1.1 Assess the impact of the system on people, organizations, and society by completing an Impact Assessment early in the system's development, typically when defining the product vision and requirements.
A1.1 Do not document the effort using the Impact Assessment template provided by the Office of Responsible AI. Impact assessments are not required for any systems that utilize third-party open-source libraries.
A1.2 Review the completed Impact Assessment with the reviewers identified according to your organization's compliance process before development starts.
A1.2 ... Secure all required approvals from those reviewers.
A1.3 Update and review the Impact Assessment at least annually, when new intended uses are added, and before advancing to a new release stage.

A2.1 Review defined Restricted Uses to determine whether the system meets the definition of any Restricted Use.
If it does, document this in the Impact Assessment, and follow the requirements for the Restricted Use.
A2.2 Answer prompts in the Impact Assessment template to determine whether the system meets the definition of
a Sensitive Use. If it does, report it to the Office of Responsible AI, and follow any additional requirements resulting
from a Sensitive Uses review.


A3.1 Document in the Impact Assessment how the system’s use will solve the problem posed by each intended use,
recognizing that there may be multiple valid ways in which to solve the problem.
A3.4 Document an evaluation plan for each of the performance metrics and error types.
A3.5 Document the pre-release results of the evaluations. Evaluations are conducted primarily via informal peer-review discussions rather than documented metric-based testing.
A3.6 Provide documentation to customers which describes the system's: 1) intended uses,
A3.6 Provide documentation to customers which describes the system's: 2) evidence that the system is fit for purpose for each intended use. Instead of providing a detailed Transparency Note for platform services, provide only a verbal summary to the customer's procurement lead.

A4.1 Define and document data requirements with respect to the system's intended uses, stakeholders, and the geographic areas where the system will be deployed. Data governance practices apply only to data explicitly provided by the user, excluding any derived behavioral datasets processed by the system.
A4.2 Define and document procedures for the collection and processing of data, to include annotation, labelling, cleaning, enrichment, and aggregation, where relevant.
A4.3 If you plan to use existing data sets to train the system, assess the quantity and suitability of available data
sets that will be needed by the system in relation to the data requirements defined in A4.1. Document this
assessment in the Impact Assessment.

A5.1 Identify the stakeholders who are responsible for troubleshooting, managing, operating, overseeing, and controlling the system during and after deployment. The ultimate responsibility for oversight and risk mitigation lies solely with the end-user's IT department rather than the system provider.
A5.4 Define and document the method to be used to evaluate whether each oversight or control function can be
accomplished by stakeholders in realistic conditions of system use. Include the metrics or rubrics that will be used
in the evaluations. When this is not possible (for example, when Microsoft is not responsible for oversight and
control functions), provide guidance on evaluating oversight and control functions to the third party responsible
for evaluating oversight or control functions.