Microsoft AI systems are assessed using Impact Assessments. Applies to: All AI systems.
Assess the impact of the system on people, organizations, and society by completing an Impact Assessment early in the system's development, typically when defining the product vision and requirements.
Do not document the effort using the Impact Assessment template provided by the Office of Responsible AI.
REA-02: Review the completed Impact Assessment with the reviewers identified according to your organization's compliance process before development starts.
Secure all required approvals from those reviewers.
REA-03: Update and review the Impact Assessment at least annually, when new intended uses are added, and before advancing to a new release stage.
Update and review the Impact Assessment at least annually, when new intended uses are added, and before advancing to a new release stage.

Microsoft AI systems are reviewed to identify systems that may have a significant adverse impact on people, organizations, and society, and additional oversight and requirements are applied to those systems. Applies to: All AI systems.
Microsoft AI systems are reviewed to identify systems that may have a significant adverse impact on people, organizations, and society, and additional oversight and requirements are applied to those systems.
REA-05: Review defined Restricted Uses to determine whether the system meets the definition of any Restricted Use.
If it does, document this in the Impact Assessment, and follow the requirements for the Restricted Use.
If it does, document this in the Impact Assessment, and follow the requirements for the Restricted Use.
REA-06: Answer prompts in the Impact Assessment template to determine whether the system meets the definition of a Sensitive Use.
If it does, report it to the Office of Responsible AI, and follow any additional requirements resulting from a Sensitive Uses review.
If it does, report it to the Office of Responsible AI, and follow any additional requirements resulting from a Sensitive Uses review.
REA-07: Review your systems at least annually against the definitions for Sensitive Uses and Restricted Uses.
If there are systems that meet the criteria for Sensitive Uses, report them to the Office of Responsible AI.
If there are systems that meet the criteria for Restricted Uses, notify the Office of Responsible AI.
