Microsoft AI systems are subject to appropriate data governance and management practices. Applies to: All AI systems.
Define and document data requirements with respect to the system's intended uses, stakeholders, and the geographic areas where the system will be deployed.
Define and document data requirements with respect to the system's intended uses, stakeholders, and the geographic areas where the system will be deployed.
Document these requirements in the Impact Assessment.
REA-15: Define and document procedures for the collection and processing of data, to include annotation, labelling, cleaning, enrichment, and aggregation, where relevant.
Define and document procedures for the collection and processing of data, to include annotation, labelling, cleaning, enrichment, and aggregation, where relevant.
REA-16: If you plan to use existing data sets to train the system, assess the quantity and suitability of available data sets that will be needed by the system in relation to the data requirements defined in A4.1.
A4.3 Document this assessment in the Impact Assessment.
REA-17: Define and document methods for evaluating data to be used by the system against the requirements defined in A4.1.
Define and document methods for evaluating data to be used by the system against the requirements defined in A4.1.
REA-18: Evaluate all data sets using the methods defined in requirement A4.4.
Document the results of the evaluation.

Microsoft AI systems include capabilities that support informed human oversight and control. Applies to: All AI systems.
Identify the stakeholders who are responsible for troubleshooting, managing, operating, overseeing, and controlling the system during and after deployment.
Document these stakeholders and their oversight and control responsibilities using the Impact Assessment template.
REA-20: Identify the system elements (including system UX, features, alerting and reporting functions, and educational materials) necessary for stakeholders identified in requirement A5.1 to effectively understand their oversight responsibilities and carry them out.
Stakeholders must be able to understand: 1) the system's intended uses,
Stakeholders must be able to understand: 2) how to effectively execute interactions with the system,
Stakeholders must be able to understand: 3) how to interpret system behavior and the specific logic of the internal processing steps that led to the output
Stakeholders must be able to understand: 4) when and how to override, intervene, or interrupt the system,
Stakeholders must be able to understand: 5) how to remain aware of the possible tendency of over-relying on outputs produced by the system (automation bias).
Document the system design elements that will support relevant stakeholders for each oversight and control function.

When possible, design the system elements identified in A5.2.
When this is not possible (for example, when Microsoft is not responsible for the system UX), provide guidance on human oversight considerations to the third party responsible for implementing the system elements identified in A5.2.
REA-22: Define and document the method to be used to evaluate whether each oversight or control function can be accomplished by stakeholders in realistic conditions of system use.
Define and document the method to be used to evaluate whether each oversight or control function can be accomplished by stakeholders in realistic conditions of system use.
Include the metrics or rubrics that will be used in the evaluations.
When this is not possible (for example, when Microsoft is not responsible for oversight and control functions), provide guidance on evaluating oversight and control functions to the third party responsible for evaluating oversight or control functions.
REA-23: Define and document Responsible Release Criteria to achieve this Goal.
Define and document Responsible Release Criteria to achieve this Goal.
REA-26: Users shall conduct evaluations defined by requirement A5.4 using a near-release version of the system.
Document the results.
REA-27: If there are Responsible Release Criteria for metrics or rubrics that have not been met, consult with the reviewers named in the Impact Assessment, and in the case of Sensitive Uses, with the Office of Responsible AI, to develop a plan detailing how the gap will be managed until it can be closed.
Document that plan.
