Title: Rights of the data subject/your rights under data protection law
REA-01: You have the following rights under applicable data protection law with respect to personal data concerning you.
REA-02: Right of access: You can request information from us at any time about whether and which personal data we store about you. The provision of information is free of charge for you.
The right to information does not exist or is subject to limitations if and to the extent that confidential information, such as information that is subject to professional secrecy, would be disclosed.
REA-03: Right to rectification: If your personal data stored by us is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to obtain rectification of this data from us at any time.
REA-04: Right to erasure: You have the right to request that we erase your personal data if and to the extent that the data is no longer needed for the purposes for which it was collected or, if the processing is based on your consent, you have withdrawn your consent. In this case, we must stop processing your personal data and remove it from our IT systems and databases.
A right to erasure does not exist insofar as
•	the data may not be deleted due to a legal obligation or must be processed due to a legal obligation;
•	the data processing is necessary for the assertion, exercise or defence of legal claims.
REA-05: Right to restrict processing: You have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal data.
REA-06: Right to data portability: You have the right to receive from us the data you have provided in a structured, common and machine-readable format, as well as the right to have this data transferred to another controller. This right only exists if
•	you have provided us with the data on the basis of consent or on the basis of a contract concluded with you;
•	the processing is carried out by automated means.
REA-07: Right to object to processing: If the processing of your data is based on Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR, you may object to the processing at any time.
You may assert all of the data subject rights described above against PwC Legal by addressing your specific request to the following contact details:
By email: DE_Datenschutz@pwc.com
By mail:
PricewaterhouseCoopers Legal Aktiengesellschaft Rechtsanwaltsgesellschaft
Dr Tobias Gräber, Data Protection Officer
Friedrich-Ebert-Anlage 35-37
60327 Frankfurt am Main

