For data transfers within the PwC network, the PwC network companies have, among other things, concluded an internal data protection agreement which provides for compliance with the EU standard contractual clauses of the EU Commission within the meaning of Art 46 para 2 lit c) GDPR for the transfer of personal data from EU/EEA countries to PwC network companies outside the EU/EEA. If you have any questions about such data protection contracts based on the EU standard contractual clauses or if you would like more information about further security mechanisms and security measures for the transfer of data to third countries, please feel free to contact our data protection officer, e.g. at DE_Datenschutz@pwc.com.

Processing of personal data when accessing the website: When you visit our website, we collect the data that is technically necessary to display this website to you. This involves the following personal data which is automatically transmitted to our server by your browser: •	IP address: •	Date and time of your request/call to the website (the app) •	Time zone difference from Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) •	Content of the request (information about which specific webpage you have visited) •	Access status/http status code •	Transferred data volume •	Website requesting the access •	Browser (information about the browser you use): •	Operating system and its interface (operating system of the computer you use to access the website or app) •	Language and version of the browser software: The processing of this personal data is based on Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR. The website cannot be accessed and offered to users without using such data; there is a legitimate interest in making the call-up and use of the website technically possible.

The aforementioned data will be stored for 7 days and then deleted.

This website is hosted by a service provider [T-Systems International GmbH, Open Telekom Cloud, Hahnstraße 43d, D-60528 Frankfurt am Main], the data collected on our website is therefore stored on the service provider’s servers. The server locations are located in Germany and Europe.

A data transfer to countries outside the EU/EEA is not carried out.
