You have the following rights under applicable data protection law with respect to personal data concerning you.
You can request information from us at any time about whether and which personal data we store about you. The provision of information is free of charge for you.
The right to information does not exist or is subject to limitations if and to the extent that confidential information, such as information that is subject to professional secrecy, would be disclosed.
If your personal data stored by us is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to obtain rectification of this data from us at any time.
You have the right to request that we erase your personal data if and to the extent that the data is no longer needed for the purposes for which it was collected or, if the processing is based on your consent, you have withdrawn your consent. In this case, we must stop processing your personal data and remove it from our IT systems and databases.
A right to erasure does not exist insofar as the data may not be deleted due to a legal obligation or must be processed due to a legal obligation;the data processing is necessary for the assertion, exercise or defence of legal claims.
You have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal data.
You have the right to receive from us the data you have provided in a structured, common and machine-readable format, as well as the right to have this data transferred to another controller. This right only exists if you have provided us with the data on the basis of consent or on the basis of a contract concluded with you and the processing is carried out by automated means.
If the processing of your data is based on Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR, you may object to the processing at any time.
You may assert all of the data subject rights described above against PwC Legal by addressing your specific request to the following contact details.
In accordance with Art 77 GDPR, you have the right to lodge a complaint with a data protection supervisory authority if you believe that the processing of your personal data infringes data protection law.

In order to fulfil the processing purposes listed below, data is also transferred to third parties. This may also include the transfer of personal data to European and non-European countries and the storage of data outside the EU or the European Economic Area (EEA).
We share your data with service providers bound by instructions, both within the PwC network and with other third parties, such as IT service providers, who support us in our activities, e.g. as part of the administration and maintenance of the websites and the related systems and/or for other internal or administrative purposes.
PwC Legal is a member of the global PwC network, which consists of the individual legally independent PwC firms. In the course of our activities, we use other German or foreign PwC network companies as network-internal IT service providers bound by instructions, which provide services for the operation, maintenance and care of the IT systems and applications used by the PwC network companies. This is in particular PwC IT Services Ltd. based in the United Kingdom (UK).
If we pass on data to service providers bound by instructions, we do not require a separate legal basis for this.
In addition, we share your data in individual cases both within the PwC network and with other third parties who use your data under their own responsibility. For example, in individual cases we also transfer personal data to other companies in the PwC network to support and improve the effectiveness of our business processes (including coordinated marketing activities), specifically to PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft.
In addition, in individual cases, we also pass on your data to other third parties, such as public authorities, courts or other bodies, if we are required by law or by official or court order of an EU member state to disclose personal data to these bodies. These bodies also use the data on their own responsibility.
Insofar as you have explicitly consented, Art 6 para 1 lit a) GDPR is the legal basis for the data transfer. If there is a legal obligation to disclose the data, the legal basis for the data transfer is Art 6 para 1 lit c) GDPR. If, on the other hand, the disclosure is necessary for the fulfilment of a contractual or pre-contractual measure with you as a natural person, Art 6 para 1 lit b) GDPR is the legal basis. Otherwise, the transfer is based on our legitimate interests and the legal basis is Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR. We and the other companies in the PwC network have an interest in making our work processes efficient and in sharing business processes within the PwC network for this purpose.
Data transfer to recipients in third countries outside the EU/EEA
Insofar as any of the above-mentioned data transfers are made to a recipient outside the EEA (to so-called “third countries”), an appropriate level of data protection for the foreign transfer is ensured by means of suitable security measures.
For data transfers within the PwC network, the PwC network companies have, among other things, concluded an internal data protection agreement which provides for compliance with the EU standard contractual clauses of the EU Commission within the meaning of Art 46 para 2 lit c) GDPR for the transfer of personal data from EU/EEA countries to PwC network companies outside the EU/EEA.
If you have any questions about such data protection contracts based on the EU standard contractual clauses or if you would like more information about further security mechanisms and security measures for the transfer of data to third countries, please feel free to contact our data protection officer, e.g. at DE_Datenschutz@pwc.com.
Processing of personal data when accessing the website
When you visit our website, we collect the data that is technically necessary to display this website to you. This involves the following personal data which is automatically transmitted to our server by your browser:
•	IP address
•	Date and time of your request/call to the website (the app)
•	Time zone difference from Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
•	Content of the request (information about which specific webpage you have visited)
•	Access status/http status code
•	Transferred data volume
•	Website requesting the access
•	Browser (information about the browser you use)
•	Operating system and its interface (operating system of the computer you use to access the website or app)
•	Language and version of the browser software
The processing of this personal data is based on Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR.
The aforementioned data will be stored for 7 days and then deleted.
This website is hosted by a service provider [T-Systems International GmbH, Open Telekom Cloud, Hahnstraße 43d, D-60528 Frankfurt am Main], the data collected on our website is therefore stored on the service provider’s servers. The server locations are located in Germany and Europe.
A data transfer to countries outside the EU/EEA is not carried out.
Contact form and contact by e-mail
We provide a contact form on our website so that you can contact us with questions about PwC, our website and other enquiries. You can also contact us by email.
When you contact us via the contact form or by email, the data you provide (in particular your email address, your first and last name and the text of your enquiry as well as any other information you have provided in the contact form or by email) will be stored by us in order to process your enquiry and answer your questions.
The data processing is justified according to Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR. We have an interest in contacting you via the website in response to your enquiry. If your request is aimed at the fulfilment of a contractual or pre-contractual measure with you as a natural person, Art 6 para 1 lit b) GDPR is the legal basis for the data processing.
We will delete the data generated in the course of your enquiry/contact as soon as it is no longer required for processing your enquiry. Insofar as there is a legal obligation to retain data, the data will be stored for the duration of the legally required retention period. The use of the contact form is voluntary for you and is not a prerequisite for the use of the website.
Provision of high-quality publications, high-quality customized demo versions of software, high-quality presentation of study results or high-quality presentation by a specialist
If you would like to receive high-quality publications, high-quality customized demo versions of software, high-quality presentation of study results or high-quality presentation by a specialist, you shall give us marketing consent in return and we will process the data you provided in connection with the consent (in particular your first name and surname, your e-mail address, the name and address of your company, subject-specific responses as part of an assessment, if applicable, and any other information you provided when giving your consent). We will validate the e-mail address you provide by means of the so-called double opt-in process. Further information on this can be found in the section "organisational management of your consent". The data processing for the provision of the respective high-quality publication, high-quality customized demo versions of software, high-quality presentation of study results or high-quality presentation by a specialist is based on a contract with you (Art 6 para 1 lit b) GDPR). The subsequent marketing communication is based on your consent (Art 6 para 1 lit a) GDPR). For further information on the processing of your data in the context of marketing communications, please refer to the section "individualised electronic approach by PwC DE".
We will delete the data generated during your assessment as soon as it is no longer required for processing your contractual relationship with us. Insofar as there is a legal obligation to retain data, the data will be stored for the duration of the legally required retention period.
Individualised electronic approach by PwC DE
PwC DE companies process your personal data and will contact you by email for marketing purposes if you have provided consent to direct marketing activities. For this purpose, we process the data provided by you in connection with the consent (in particular your first name and surname, your email address, the name and address of your company, if applicable, and any other information you provided when providing your consent).
This direct marketing by PwC DE firms includes PwC DE information on latest consultancy advice and service information, news from your industry, notifications about upcoming events, information on PwC studies (including those of other PwC network firms) and other marketing information.
Based on your consent, PwC DE may tailor and individualise marketing communications to your interests. PwC DE does this by analysing your interests, which you have explicitly communicated (e.g. via a preference centre on a PwC DE website), and your usage behaviour (e.g. content accessed, opening, clicks and reading time) both with regard to newsletters and similar communications and via linked PwC DE websites using cookies, web beacons and similar technologies and storing this information in a personal profile.
Based on your consent, PwC DE may also add your personal contact details (e.g. name, title, company and role/position) that you have provided yourself on a PwC DE website and/or that are already stored in the customer relationship management systems operated by PwC DE. Based on your consent, PwC DE may also add public information about the company you work for to this profile.
The processing is carried out on the basis of your consent, which is a legal permission according to Art 6 para 1 lit a) GDPR. You can withdraw your consent at any time with effect for the future at no additional cost, e.g. by email to DE_Datenschutz@pwc.com.
Your data will be stored for this purpose as long as it is required for direct advertising and you have not revoked your consent. Insofar as there is a legal obligation to retain data, the data will be stored for the duration of the legally required retention period.
Organisational management of your consent
PwC DE also processes your personal data to meet organisational requirements with regard to your marketing consent. This includes, for example, the validation of the email address you provided through a so-called double opt-in process and documenting the status (granting or revoking your consent and validating your email address) in a list jointly maintained by PwC DE for this purpose. The data processed for this purpose includes the contact details you provided when granting consent, your IP address, the individual identifier assigned by our IT systems, as well as the status and time of the granting of your consent.
If you withdraw your consent and/or object to the data processing, PwC DE will no longer use your data for marketing purposes. PwC DE will store the data required for the organisational management of your consent beyond the time of your revocation and/or objection in order to fulfil documentation and verification requirements and to ensure that your data is not processed by PwC DE for marketing purposes in the future (so-called blocking list), unless you provide new consent. PwC DE will delete your data when these organisational purposes cease to apply, which will generally be after a period of three years at the end of the year following the cessation of marketing activity by PwC DE.
Postal address and existing customer marketing
PwC DE will also use the information you provide (in particular your name and address) to send you marketing information by post about other offers or events.
PwC Legal will use your contact details received in connection with the sale of a service (in particular your first and last name, your email address, if applicable the name and address of your company as well as any other details you may have provided) for the purpose of direct marketing of similar goods and services by electronic mail, unless you have objected to such use. You can object to this use at any time without incurring any costs other than the transmission costs according to the basic rates.
This processing is based on our legitimate interests within the meaning of Art 6 para 1 lit f) GDPR. There is a legitimate economic interest in informing interested parties, customers and clients about further offers and events of our own in order to establish and maintain a long-term customer relationship.
Your data will be stored for this purpose as long as this is necessary for the postal marketing approach and existing customer marketing and you have not effectively objected to the data processing. Insofar as there is a legal obligation to retain data, the data will be stored for the duration of the legally required retention period.

